Next up we'll see a group of properties that I'm struggling to come up with a name for they're all kind
of I guess you could say traversal or neighbor properties.
It's a way of accessing the parent or the children or the nearest sibling of a given element.
So it's this group right here parent element.
Children next sibling previous sibling.
They allow you to access other elements based off of the current element that you're working with.
So this is actually surprisingly common.
You don't do it all the time but there are situations where especially when we get to events when a
user might click somewhere and based off of that click you'll have an element selected and you want
to then select some other element based off of this element.
If I was making a much good example here let's say I was making a checklist and I had checkboxes in
here the click would occur on the checkbox and if I wanted to delete this entire Ally I would need to
access the parent of the checkbox or if I wanted it.
For some reason I wanted to delete this entire form.
When I click on submit I would need to select from that button I would need to access the parent or
there's plenty of other things we could do you know where we're accessing the next sibling.
So these would be siblings here.
So I'll just show you how they work.
Let's take a look at any given element.
Let's select something that has some siblings and some parents.
Let's go for this.
Ally the very first ally on the page so document that our good friend query selector ally and save that
to a variable we'll call it first ally.
OK so we have first ally.
And from there if we just inspected console dot design our first ally you'll see that we have some properties.
The first of which we'll see is called parent element L M N O P.
Here we go.
Parent element is referencing a UL that parent you well we selected this ally right here.
The parent is that you well.
So this is a connection pointing upwards.
This is how we can find the parent from a given element.
I don't know I just close then.
I meant to just hide this.
Okay.
So I could access it by Ally.
Parent may still have ally.
It's called First ally isn't it first ally Dot's parent elements.
And I get that you well.
And if I hover you can see the dev tools displays the entire you for me.
I also could do first ally parent elements dot parent element again.
And what do you think we'll see the parents of that.
Well is the body.
How about one more time.
But if I'd change it on again this time we get him out.
So we went from this ally what was its parent this well.
What is this.
Well nested inside of.
Well its parent is the entire body and this body is nested inside of the HMO.
And if we tried one more time we get nothing.
No there is no parent of the HMO element.
Okay.
So that's parent element.
You can use that to work backwards.
Back up the tree.
Find out a parent from a given element.
We also have the opposite.
We have children.
So instead of using the ally because our ally doesn't really have any children as you can see here it's
just text in there which actually will come back to you in a moment we'll go select.
Mm hmm.
How about we select the Q Well I guess it's kind of boring but we'll select the well.
So const you l equals document dot query selector of UL we'll take the first one.
Okay.
So we have our you l right there.
I also could have just done first Allied parent.
But we have our you will clear my console if I access you l dot children this is another array like
object similar to what we get back from our selection methods and it contains the children elements
of this.
Well so here's the first one there in order of appearance in the DOM so ally with the class of special
then just a plain ally and another ally with the class of special.
So this is a way of accessing children going the opposite direction finding things that are nested inside
of a given element instead of what the given element is nested inside of so our allies don't really
have children but we could access one of them.
We did well that children if I want the first child I could do of 0.
Now I'm working with that Ally and I could do something to it.
Right.
I could access inter text.
Sure.
And we get first thing.
Now we also have a couple of different options we have next and previous siblings.
So what if we select the ally that we have it's called first ally right there.
The very first ally that was from earlier we selected it before the UL if I accessed first Ella.
Next element sibling.
We get the next sibling which is second thing.
If I did one more dot next element sibling.
We get this ally down here.
So siblings are on the same level.
They share a parent.
We also have previous sibling.
So if I were to save this to a variable we'll call this concept.
Third ally so third ally is this ally right here.
As you can see when I hover I could go the other way.
Third ally.
Previous element sibling gives me this ally.
The one before it.
So now we have a way of not only doing parent to get the parent element.
We have children to get any children we have.
Next element sibling and previous element sibling.
And with those different properties we can access whatever we need from a given element.
We could work upwards find multiple siblings away we could find children find parents.
Usually we don't need to do anything crazy because we wanted to find you know it within children if
we needed to find something and there was hundreds of children as we've already seen.
We can actually call query selector on an element instead of on the document so you can continue to
search within something.
But if you just need the parents or the first child or the next sibling you can use these nice properties.